We've seen one way to handle async
code and react with effects but
sometimes you need to be more reactive
to like user input right now all we're
doing is when the page loads we're
loading in data from our API, right?
We also wanna make it so that a user can
request data from the API when every time
they submit the form, right?
That's kind of the point
of the entire form there.
So let's go do that.
Top over to your code here.
And we're gonna go into search paras.JS.
And then here on it's actually
fairly simple because we kind of
set it up in a really good way we can just
put a submit listener here on the form so
what we can do We're gonna
just make an A on submit,
And then, we'll just make a little
function here that takes in an event.
The first thing that It's gonna do as you
might remember if you've ever written any
form code before is e dot prevent default,
right?
So you actually don't submit the form
actually if you're not familiar what I'm
talking about if you don't do
this it's actually going to
do like a post back to itself, right?
So it's going to submit the form
to itself like in an HTML form.
Which will refresh the page.
So if you're like clicking submit and
then it's like refreshing the page,
that's what it's doing.
Okay, and then all we're going to do here
is we're just going to say request Pets.
Now, why does this work?
Well, if you look, we just made
a function up here, request Pets,
that's in scope of all of these
different variables, right?
So we don't have to provide it any
sort of additional parameters or
anything like that.
We can just call request Pets,
and it'll have all of the most
up-to-date information, right?
Due to the magic of closures.
Or just state in general, right?
It's not even necessarily closure.
Cool, so let's go over here and
try it again.
So let's try some meeting just for,
I guess these are all dogs.
Anyways, so that's not really helpful
to try submitting for cats and
you can see now we're getting
different cats back from the API Or
we can look for
what do we have here American longhairs
Now, someone is gonna ask me the location
is kinda wonky it doesn't actually
work super well.
That's because it's basically just
doing it basic text matching.
So I didn't put a lot of effort into
making that work super well I'm just gonna
throw that out there, right?
I put Seattle in here and I'm pretty sure
some of these are definitely not from
Seattle but here we are, yeah.
In general if you were doing some
sort of like location database
you'd be using that instead of
just using basic pattern matching
which is what I was doing
with this particular API.
These are just Azure functions that are
running in the background at the moment
I did that, cuz it's cheap and
new people hit this API a lot.
[LAUGH] Sometimes it's funny to go
look at like the request logs and
I'll see like there's like one person
that must have just gotten wrong.
And so I get like a million
requests from them all at once.
And then it stops and
they never come back.
I don't know if it's shame or
something like that [LAUGH].
It's okay.
That's why we put it on something like
serveless functions because they're
very cheap.
There's no API shaming here.
So we did this with a form
as you can see here.
This made us all so this is like one
very simple succinct way of doing it.
We just watched for
form submits and then we're done.
The other way you could have done this
which would have been the wrong and
very much more difficult way is you could
have added like a click handler ,to
the button and
a button listener to all the.
Like labels and stuff like that.
Cuz you had to account for all
the different ways you can submit a form,
which is a lot, there's a lot
of ways to submit a form, right?
So don't do that just listen for
submit events.
It's just like a billion times easier.
Yeah, Mark.
>> There's a question about
what's your opinion on.
Formic or
some of the other react forms solutions.
>> Sure.
So there's a lot of form
libraries out there that
are basically like premade forms.
I tend not to use them but I also haven't
had recently we've been writing code to,
like very complicated form needs, right?
Like these are typically
what my forms look like.
It's just like a really simple form
that I style up and I submit, right?
If you have stuff like you need like
complex validation, like you need to make
sure that the city and the state and
the zip code all work right and
you need to show like errors on
the correct one if something goes wrong.
Something like Formic, which is the only
one that I have ever used is helpful.
So that's about as much as I'm gonna
give because it's as much as I know.
But basically if you have complex like
validations and logic around that,
then something like former can be helpful.
Otherwise, Nick, as you saw here, this is
not terribly difficult to do yourself.
And I generally prefer less libraries,
less code,
more obvious what it's doing, right?
You can read through the search params,
and
you know everything that is doing, right?
You don't need to understand
how formic works to do good.
That's just my kind of
way of writing code but
I'll leave you to decide
what you think about that.
Cool the one thing I did want to hop into
and show you quick from the notes here and
I think handling user input here if
you go here to the react docs which by
the way they're about to release new
react docs I think that beta dot
reactjas.org I like that anyway,
they're great.
Written by a Front end Masters teacher,
Rachel Nabors.
Fun fact she's great.
So there's tons of events that
you can listen to let like on
composition and
you can listen to key press, focus blur.
But there's tons and
tons of stuff that you can do here.
And so I invite you to just go through
all this like synthetic event part of
the docs, synthetic events.
Remember, it means that it's actually
technically a react event and
not a real DOM event.
But they've shaped them
the exact same way so
that you can just kind of
assume that they work the same.
I mean, you saw like, we've been
using like e dot target dot value and
e dot prevent default and
those kind of things,
like React re implements that
part of the of the DOM cool.
That's one reason why they're on submit.
Kind of, a loop back around what
I was talking about earlier.
There's nothing that we
did here that was very
complicated in terms of keeping
track of all the data here in state.
So we really what we could have done here,
instead of like, watching for on changes
and on blurs and, all that kind of stuff
here, we could have done but none of that.
And then here on submit, you can actually
pull the form data off the event.
And then we could have put
that into request pets, right?
And that way we would have
had none of this logic,
which would be kind of nice, right?
We could have just looked at the forum,
handle all the data tracking and
then just use that to request the data.
If I was writing this for myself for
like a real application that's
what I would have done.
It's an uncontrolled form is
what you would call that.
In other words,
I would have just done this like
a normal form and not like a React form